---
title: "The European Journal of Taxonomy launches its hosted portal on GBIF"
date: 2025-1-20 16:45:45 +0200
categories: announcement
lang-ref: The European Journal of Taxonomy launches its hosted portal on GBIF
background: assets/images/placeholders/logo.jpg width="50"
---

The European Journal of Taxonomy is a fully refereed, international, electronic open access journal in descriptive taxonomy, covering subjects in zoology (including entomology), botany (in its broadest sense), mycology, and paleontology.

It provides immediate free open access to its content on the principle that making research freely available to the public supports and encourages a greater global exchange of knowledge.

From the beginning, the European Journal of Taxonomy has committed to ensuring the findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability (FAIR principles) of its data.

In 2017, the consortium partnered with the non-profit organization Plazi to retroconvert the metadata of articles published since 2011 in PDF format, along with the taxonomic treatments and material citations they contain, into XML Taxpub format. The articles, as well as the associated elements and data are deposited in the Biodiversity Literature Repository (Zenodo) to be disseminated across various relevant databases such as GBIF.

However, although 100% of EJT data was available on GBIF, until now, it could only be retrieved through individual searches.

To address this issue, the EJT consortium registered as a publisher on GBIF as a first step and was endorsed by GBIF France. The consortium was then in a position to apply to the GBIF hosted portal programme, which provides a centralized data repository and powerful search and visualization tools.

After a period of setting up the tools and refining the data, **we are pleased to announce the launch of the GBIF hosted portal for the European Journal of Taxonomy.**
